README.md, before:

# zarr-gl

Custom WebGL Zarr layer for Mapbox and Maplibre.

This library allows you to load [Zarr](https://zarr.dev/) data into a [Mapbox GL JS](https://docs.mapbox.com/mapbox-gl-js/guides/) or [Maplibre GL JS](https://maplibre.org/maplibre-gl-js/docs/) map.

Takes inspiration from [carbonplan/maps](https://github.com/carbonplan/maps), but with two differences:
1. A library, rather than a framework, so you can use it how you like.
2. Adds a [Custom Layer](https://docs.mapbox.com/mapbox-gl-js/api/properties/#customlayerinterface) to Mapbox's GL context, rather than creating a whole separate one. Allows you to mix and match with Map styles, adjust layer ordering etc.

You can see a demo at: [rainy.rdrn.me](http://rainy.rdrn.me).

<img width="824" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0414dcd2-2b1f-4e1a-aea8-a2b715fcab56">


## Quickstart
```bash
npm install zarr-gl
```

You'll need to prepare the data using [carbonplan/ndpyramid](https://github.com/carbonplan/ndpyramid).
Hoping to make that unnecessary at least for use-cases where a narrow zoom-range works.
There's a basic data preparation example at [example/prep.py](./example/prep.py).

```js
import { ZarrLayer } from "zarr-gl";
// or skip the npm install and just do this:
// import { ZarrLayer } from "https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/zarr-gl@0.2.0/+esm";

const map = new mapboxgl.Map({
  container: "map",
  style: "mapbox://styles/mapbox/standard",
  projection: "mercator",
});

const layer = new ZarrLayer({
  id: "myZarrLayer",
  source: "https://example.com/path/to/my.zarr",
  variable: "precip",
  colormap: [[200, 10, 50], [30, 40, 30], [50, 10, 200]],
  vmin: 0,
  vmax: 100,
  opacity: 0.8,
  map,
});
map.addLayer(layer);
```

## Roadmap
- [x] Support a `selector` option to index into additional dimensions. Currently only 2D datasets are supported.
- [ ] Reproject from lon/lat to EPSG:3857 on the fly
- [ ] Handle chunk sizes other than 128x128.
- [ ] Appropriately handle non-float32 data.
- [ ] Add more lifecycle events.

## Examples
1. There is a very basic example (including data prep) in the [example](./example) directory.
2. There's also a more complex React app inside [demo](./demo) and viewable at [rainy.rdrn.me](http://rainy.rdrn.me).

## Contributing
I'd love input on use-cases, ideas, missing features etc.
Even better if they come with code.

### Testing Pull Requests
When you open a pull request, a preview build is automatically created and deployed. A Github action will autmatically provide the link and the code snippet to use in a comment on the PR.

Commit message:

create CONTRIBUTING.md, add project information

README.md, after:

# zarr-gl

Custom WebGL Zarr layer for Mapbox and Maplibre.

This library allows you to load [Zarr](https://zarr.dev/) data into a [Mapbox GL JS](https://docs.mapbox.com/mapbox-gl-js/guides/) or [Maplibre GL JS](https://maplibre.org/maplibre-gl-js/docs/) map.

Takes inspiration from [carbonplan/maps](https://github.com/carbonplan/maps), but with two differences:
1. A library, rather than a framework, so you can use it how you like.
2. Adds a [Custom Layer](https://docs.mapbox.com/mapbox-gl-js/api/properties/#customlayerinterface) to Mapbox's GL context, rather than creating a whole separate one. Allows you to mix and match with Map styles, adjust layer ordering etc.

You can see a demo at: [rainy.rdrn.me](http://rainy.rdrn.me).

<img width="824" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0414dcd2-2b1f-4e1a-aea8-a2b715fcab56">


## Quickstart
```bash
npm install zarr-gl
```

You'll need to prepare the data using [carbonplan/ndpyramid](https://github.com/carbonplan/ndpyramid).
Hoping to make that unnecessary at least for use-cases where a narrow zoom-range works.
There's a basic data preparation example at [example/prep.py](./example/prep.py).

```js
import { ZarrLayer } from "zarr-gl";
// or skip the npm install and just do this:
// import { ZarrLayer } from "https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/zarr-gl@0.2.0/+esm";

const map = new mapboxgl.Map({
  container: "map",
  style: "mapbox://styles/mapbox/standard",
  projection: "mercator",
});

const layer = new ZarrLayer({
  id: "myZarrLayer",
  source: "https://example.com/path/to/my.zarr",
  variable: "precip",
  colormap: [[200, 10, 50], [30, 40, 30], [50, 10, 200]],
  vmin: 0,
  vmax: 100,
  opacity: 0.8,
  map,
});
map.addLayer(layer);
```

## Roadmap
- [x] Support a `selector` option to index into additional dimensions. Currently only 2D datasets are supported.
- [ ] Reproject from lon/lat to EPSG:3857 on the fly
- [ ] Handle chunk sizes other than 128x128.
- [ ] Appropriately handle non-float32 data.
- [ ] Add more lifecycle events.

## Examples
1. There is a very basic example (including data prep) in the [example](./example) directory.
2. There's also a more complex React app inside [demo](./demo) and viewable at [rainy.rdrn.me](http://rainy.rdrn.me).

## Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md) for guidelines on how to contribute to this project.
